---
layout: post
title: Week 1: Intro to Open Source
---


When I hear the term "open source", I think about the open source community. I think about how people contribute to open source projects, how they can help each other, how open source projects are managed, how they are funded, and how contributions are made to the projects among other things. When compared with closed source, I see an advantage here from a student perspective in that open source projects are more accessible to the public. They're more likely to be maintained by a community of developers because open source projects are more likely to have a larger community of developers who are willing to help each other. This provides a great learning aspect. Although this is a great advantage, there are downsides to open source as well. The biggest downside is that open source projects are not as secure as closed source projects. Anyone can see the code and contribute to it which can lead to security issues. But hey, don't take my word for it, I'm in this class not because I'm an expert in open source, but because I know very little about it. And to flesh out my github.

Four open source projects I regularly use or have influenced me some way in the past are Linux, Visual Studio Code, Azure Documentation, and Eclipse. I have used Linux for a while now for my core classes such as Operating Systems and Computer Systems Organization. I have used Visual Studio Code for coursework as well, but it's also become my go to for any personal projects. I regularly use Azure Documentation for my internship, and Eclipse was the first IDE I used when I became a CS major.