---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Open Source in the Real World
---

This week's focus on open source in the real world, particularly the development and use of tools for managing diabetes (I watched the videos under group 1), has been enlightening. The videos, highlighting projects like the open-source blood sugar monitoring and insulin pump systems opened my eyes to the transformative power of open source in the medical field. These systems, which allow diabetics to monitor their blood sugar levels continuously and automate insulin delivery when necessary, represent a significant leap forward in patient care and self-management.

#### Surprises and Insights

One of the most surprising aspects for me was the depth of community involvement in these healthcare projects. The collaboration between developers, patients, and healthcare professionals to create solutions that are both innovative and accessible is inspiring. It's a vivid illustration of how open-source principles can transcend traditional software development, impacting real lives in profound ways. I was also struck by the challenges faced in this domain such as regulatory hurdles, the need for extreme reliability and safety, and the complexities of integrating with existing medical technologies. These aren't typical concerns in many other open-source projects, adding layers of complexity to the development process.

#### My role as a Computer Scientist

As a computer scientist, I see several avenues where I could contribute to addressing these issues. Firstly, by contributing to the codebase of such projects, helping improve their functionality, reliability, and security. Secondly, by participating in the conversation around regulatory compliance and advocating for frameworks that support innovation while ensuring patient safety. Lastly, by ensuring that these open-source solutions can seamlessly integrate with the broader ecosystem of healthcare technologies.

#### Contributions to Open Source

Moving on to my personal contributions, In the past few weeks I engaged in smaller-scale, yet meaningful open-source activities. I made edits to a Wikipedia page, where I updated the current events page for February 18, 2024 when it was empty. This contribution, though not directly related to software, is part of the broader open-source concept of collaborative knowledge sharing. I found the process rewarding, especially seeing my edits contribute to the collective knowledge accessible to anyone on the internet, and would say this is the contribution I'm most proud of so far.

Additionally, I contributed to OpenStreetMap by adding missing information about a local restaurant in my hometown.The biggest challenges in these contributions were ensuring accuracy, dealing with the technical aspects of editing, and understanding the best practices of each platform. While this task required learning how to navigate the software and its interface, it was gratifying to contribute to a resource used by millions worldwide, and even more gratifying knowing that I shared a piece of home.