---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Reflection on Industry Integration
---

The concept of open source has proved to be a practical framework within various industries. This past week, I've had the opportunity to explore this through three different videos, each presenting a unique perspective on how open source technologies are shaping industries. From the acceleration of cultural changes within organizations to the role of open source in media production, the insights provided by the videos portray the narrative of open source's growing influence across different sectors.

#### InnerSource: Accelerating Culture Change

As spoken about in the first video, InnerSource is transforming corporations, leveraging open source principles internally to foster innovation, collaboration, and a vibrant culture of sharing. InnerSource accelerates the cultural evolution of a company by breaking barries, promoting transparency, and encouraging cross-departmental collaboration. This was a new wave because it showcased that the principles underlying open source could be applied within the confines of corporations to create a more adaptable organizational culture. Personally, this broadened my understanding of open source beyond software, highlighting its potential as a tool for organizational development.

#### OSPO

The second video introduced the concept of the Open Source Program Office (OSPO), a dedicated team within organizations that oversees and guides the strategic use of open source software. The OSPO acts as a bridge between the technical and business aspects of open source, ensuring compliance, managing risks, and promoting the benefits of open source adoption. This highlighted the structured approach businesses can adopt towards open source involvement, underscoring the importance of having a dedicated office to manage open source contributions, compliance, and community interactions. It suggests that the integration of open source into business strategies is not merely beneficial but essential for fostering innovation and maintainiing competitive edge in the digital age.

#### Open Source in Media Production

The third and final video expands the horizons of open source even more by exploring the impact of open source on the media industry. It revealed how technical and cultural shifts have prompted media companies to embrace open source software, fundamentally altering content creation, distribution, and consumption. By delving into the technical challenges and opportunities that lie ahead, the video emphasized open source's role in addressing these issues while fostering community and innovation.

#### Project Progress

This week my group has made phenomenal progress. We completed writing unit tests for our respective files and are ready to create a PR. However, we are running into a challenge with pushing our changes. It seems we may not be authorized to do so, so we have reached out to a core developer and are hoping they will get back to use soon. There have been no surprises thus far, and the biggest challenge so far was probably the learning curve that comes with becoming familiar with the development environment and the issues themselves. Overall, I feel very good about this project and I believe my group can make some meaningful contributions throughout the rest of the semester!