---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Exploring Open Source Beyond Software
---

Last week we ventured into how open source principles are applied outside of software, leading to students sharing some fascinating areas. 

Open source, traditionally associated with software development has a simple yet strong premise. You share the blueprint, allow others to improve it, and allow anyone to use it freely. This approach is now being implement in a variety of areas.

For instance, the Open Seeds Initiative reimagines how we approach agriculture, making seed breeding and distribution more accessible and less dependent on proprietary restrictions. This not oly helps in preserving biodiversity, but also empowers local farmers to innovate and adapt freely to their environmental conditions.

In the realm of sports, the Open Source Sports platform is pioneering how rules for both established and novel sports are developed. By involving a community that includes everyone from athletes to enthusiasts, the platform ensures that the sports' regulations evolve through a democratic process, reflecting a true spirit of sportsmanship and community.

The digital world has also seen a shift with platforms like Unsplash and Pixabay, where photographers and artists share their work under Creative Commons licenses. Thish allows others to use and transform digital content legally and ethically, promoting a culture of sharing and collaboration in the creative industries.

<!--more-->


#### Project Progress

This week, we finally figured out how to navigate the test platform on GitHub. We now know where in the code our errors are and are working to make the necessary changes so that the code passes all of the linting and component tests, and the PRs can successfully be merged.