---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Open Source in Action
---

Tidepool, a nonprofit organization focused on providing free software for diabetes data management, uses open source principles to develop and maintain their platform. Their commitment to open source is rooted in the belief that transparency, community contributions, and accessibility can drive innovation in diabetes care. By making their software open source, Tidepool lets developers, patients, and researchers collaborate to improve their platforms. This is a unique approach where the users are also contributors. Users essentially have the opportunity to shape the software they rely on.

In contrast, enterprises often leverage open source software with a different set of objectives. It's typically more gaurded and strategic - using open source components to accelerate development, reduce costs, and mitigate risks. But the end goal is often to build solutions on top of the open source foundations. This model allows companies to benefit from the open source community while keeping control over their intellectual property.

In summary, while Tidepool embraces a high level of transparency, enterprises may selectively choose when and how much to engage with the open source community. For Tidepool, community iinput is essential and directly influences their product development. Enterprises, however, have to balance community interests with their own business goals and competitive advantages.

#### Project Progress

This week, our team was able to successfully push our changes and create a pull request. However, our current challenge that we need to overcome as a group is we all have comments about the code that need to be addressed before the PR can be merged. This goes hand in hand with the challenge I need to overcome as an individual. As I'm no expert in writing unit tests, I need to figure out how to address the feedback and improve the quality of the tests I wrote so none of them fail.